When creating my functions through VS code, Github Copilot helped me generate the base structure of my data cleaning block. I initialized Copilot by using comments to give the AI a prompt to generate code that was similar to what was desired for the project under the definitions of each function. The functions to standardize and clean were built of Copilot. The use of Copilot allowed me to work more efficiently when leading to the repetitive lines of some functions.
I made several improvements and edits to the code that Copilot generated. To match certain categories in the original .csv file, I changed the names of some variables and altered the function names to better align to my style. I added a convert_data_types function because the dataset required explicit conversion of price and qty into numeric types using pd.to_numeric, which Copilot did not initially include. I also adjusted column names like qty and prodname to match the actual dataset structure instead of generic names.
I learned that having clean and correctly formatted data is necessary in real-world data analyzation. Having inconsistent formatting can make or break a function or program if it is not executed and set correctly. With Github Copilot, I learned that it is a great tool to help assist the engineer in creating a program, but is far from perfect and may miss vital components that are needed in a project like this. For example, the incorrect category names would have caused numerous errors, causing the program to crash.
